--- 
wordpress_id: 204
layout: post
wordpress_url: http://www.josephcrawford.com/2006/11/21/at-a-halt/
categories: 
- slug: entertainment
  autoslug: entertainment
  title: Entertainment
- slug: local
  autoslug: local
  title: Local
- slug: news
  autoslug: news
  title: News
- slug: raves
  autoslug: raves
  title: Raves
tags: []

title: At A Halt
---

So you may have noticed that my posting on here has slowed down quite a bit.  The reason is because we recently relocated.  We moved our entire house in 1 day starting at 6:30am and ending at 1:30am.  The house is scattered with boxes and we are busy unpacking and organizing everything.  I will try to post on here as much as I can however I hope to be back on schedule within a few weeks.  Moving an entire house in 1 day was not fun and drained everyone of all the energy they had.  I came down with a cold, started to lose my voice.  I am also working everyday so I cannot dedicate all of my time to getting this house back in order.

The last apartment we were at we had to get out of.  Not only was rent outrageous for this area ($1200 for 2 bedroom though it included everything) but the landlord was losing grip of everything.  I will not go into details but will say that it was tough to get him to fix anything that needed to be fixed.  The first 2 years were fine but then things started going down hill.  We needed to get a skylight fixed in our daughters room because it was the only means of ventilation in that room.  I had to hold back rent to get him to fix it.  Even with holding the rent it still took him about 20 days to fix the issue.  At the same time I was holding rent, my daughters scooter (gas powered retailed at $400) was in storage downstairs.  It became locked behind a chicken wire storage area.  I told the landlord he had no right and that I wanted it unlocked.  Long story short the scooter came up missing before I ever saw it unlocked.

I will not deal with a landlord that will steal from a 9 year old or not do anything about his employees stealing from his tenants.  I confronted him and he said it was not his problem if one of his guys stole the scooter.

We are out and couldnt be happier.
