--- 
layout: post
is_review: false
title: PHP 5.2.0 Released!
tags: 
- title: Raves
  autoslug: raves
  slug: raves
- title: News
  autoslug: news
  slug: news
- title: Internet
  autoslug: internet
  slug: internet
- title: Development
  autoslug: development
  slug: development
- title: Software
  autoslug: software
  slug: software
---

Someone sent an email to the php.net announce mailing list a little while ago stating that PHP 5.2.0 is released.  This version will include several new features as well as over 200 bug fixes.  The only thing that makes me wonder is that as of now the php.net site has nothing listed about 5.2.0... Maybe they announced it too soon?  Although you can get 5.2.0 from the cvs i think they should have released it on the download page at the same time as sending that email ;) Here is what the changelog says about this release.

**The key features of PHP 5.2.0 include:**
- New memory manager for the Zend Engine with improved performance and a more accurate memory usage tracking.
- Input filtering extension was added and enabled by default.
- JSON extension was added and enabled by default.
- ZIP extension for creating and editing zip files was introduced.
- Hooks for tracking file upload progress were introduced.
- Introduced E_RECOVERABLE_ERROR error mode.
- Introduced DateTime and DateTimeZone objects with methods to manipulate date/time information.
- Upgraded bundled SQLite, PCRE libraries.
- Upgraded OpenSSL, MySQL and PostgreSQL client libraries for Windows installations.
- Many performance improvements.
- Over 200 bug fixes.
<!--more-->
**Security Enhancements and Fixes in PHP 5.2.0:**
- Made PostgreSQL escaping functions in PostgreSQL and PDO extension keep track of character set encoding whenever possible.
- Added allow_url_include, set to Off by default to disallow use of URLs for include and require.
- Disable realpath cache when open_basedir and safe_mode are being used.
- Improved safe_mode enforcement for error_log() function.
- Fixed a possible buffer overflow in the underlying code responsible for htmlspecialchars() and htmlentities() functions.
- Added missing safe_mode and open_basedir checks for the cURL extension.
- Fixed overflow is str_repeat() &amp; wordwrap() functions on 64bit machines.
- Fixed handling of long paths inside the tempnam() function.
- Fixed safe_mode/open_basedir checks for session.save_path, allowing them to account for extra parameters.
- Fixed ini setting overload in the ini_restore() function. All users of PHP, especially those using earlier PHP 5 releases are advised to upgrade to this release as soon as possible. This release also obsoletes the 5.1 branch of PHP.

My favorite part of this release so far is the ability to track a file upload progress.  There have been many "hack" style work arounds for this but to have it built directly into PHP just makes me so happy.  I will be updating to PHP 5.0.2 as soon as I can, if MAMP does not upgrade fast enough I just might have to learn to compile everything on OS X.
