--- 
layout: post
is_review: false
title: The dream of a Mission Impossible home
tags: 
- title: Entertainment
  autoslug: entertainment
  slug: entertainment
- title: Internet
  autoslug: internet
  slug: internet
- title: Raves
  autoslug: raves
  slug: raves
---
I have always wanted to Mission Impossiblize my home with a state of the art home security camera system.  You know the kind where you have to have a biometric scanner next to the door in order to gain access.  I would also love to have windows that auto tinted during the day to keep unwanted eyes from peering in.  I really want the home to be hooked up, everything would be accessible on-line.  If i were on the road I could login via the Internet and have the coffee start brewing so that when I got home it was all ready.  With things going the way they are these days I would be able to access it from my Treo 650 or iPhone cell phone while en-route.There is more to just securing the interior of your home though.  I would need some outdoor security cameras.  Not all of this security stuff is meant to keep people out and the interior secure but most of it is.  I like to have the feeling of security when I am at home.  I want to know that someone cannot just walk in the front door or knock it down at will.  If I was working in my office at the house I would want to know if someone was in close proximity of my house.Thinking about the exterior of the home, I think I would also need to have a driveway alarm that will beep or chime whenever someone drives into the driveway. Aside from all of that I would definitely need all of the exterior doors to be security doors that would not be easy to open without proper access.  If you walk up to the door, place your hand on the biometric scanner and you have access the door will unlock, otherwise you are out of luck.<!--more-->On the interior I would also want to have everything be wired. I would wire the house with Cat5 connections to a wall plate. I know there is wireless and you can have a WEP key to secure it but if it is in the air it can be hijacked. It if is running through the cables in the walls it's a bit harder to gain access to from outside the house. I would also love to have one of those refrigerators that have the touch screens where you can mark what you are out of and it would be accessible from my phone when I am at the grocery store.You might be wondering what would happen with a power outage, I would be out of luck right?  Wrong!  I would be smart enough to have a backup battery that would run the doors for a prolonged outage.  If for some reason the outage was longer than the backup battery could withstand there would be a gas generator I could fire up.  Now in the event of an outage the system would have to be smart enough to say all that needs to be powered is the server (in hibernation mode), the biometric scanner and the door locks.  The server would become active when the biometric scanner was activated.The home would also have to have a safe room as well, something so that if the absolute worst happened I could lock myself in there and still communicate with the outside world.Would you want a home like this?  Why or why not?
