--- 
layout: post
is_review: false
title: Playstation 3 vs Xbox 360
tags: 
- title: Entertainment
  autoslug: entertainment
  slug: entertainment
- title: Raves
  autoslug: raves
  slug: raves
- title: Reviews
  autoslug: reviews
  slug: reviews
---
When it comes to gaming systems everyone has their own opinions about them.  Some will argue that the Xbox 360 has better graphics than the Playstation 3.  I have used both on the same HDTV and I see only minor differences.  The differences are so minor that I cannot voice an opinion about which has better graphics.  The biggest difference between the 2 systems is that the Xbox currently has more games available than the Playstation 3.  Using both of them I do have to say that I favor the Playstation 3 for a few reasons.<div>{democracy:7}</div>The Playstation has built in Bluetooth and WiFi.  Honestly I am not sure if the Xbox 360 supports Bluetooth or not however the big kicker for me is that in order to get system and game updates you do not have to spend yet another $99 on the WiFi adapter for the system.  Both systems are comparable to each other and some may find that the Xbox has everything they are looking for.  If you are into on-line gaming I highly suggest that you buy a Playstation over the Xbox.  Microsoft runs the Xbox Live service as we all know and they charge you for it.  While it may not seem like a lot it's yet another monthly bill you do not need.  When it comes to playing Playstation 3 games on-line all you have to do is create a *free* Playstation network account and you are golden.  There are no monthly fee's.  You can however enter billing information if you would like to be able to buy some games, game updates, etc. but you are not required to.  This was the biggest advantage for me.  I cannot say that in the future Sony will not start charging for the service but I do not see it coming, it is their largest advantage over Microsoft at this time.<!--more-->I do have to say that while playing Playstation 2 games on a wide screen TV it is not too enjoyable.  It does not upscale the picture to fit the wide screen tv therefore you have the old square screen with black bars on the side.  The graphics for the hi-definition games I do have to say is phenomenal.Both of the systems have wireless controllers which contain rechargeable batteries although with the Xbox from what I have seen you have to remove the batteries to charge them.  Sony makes it easy because you use a USB cable to plug the controller into the console when not in use.  The cable is very much like any digital camera cable.  The downfall with the Playstation controllers is that I have not found a way to change the batteries.  What happens over time when they gain a memory or just die?  The wireless controllers are about $50 which is pretty steep if you ask me but then again I am used to about $25-30 per controller.From what I understand the Xbox has an HD-DVD drive.  The Playstation 3 has a Blu-Ray drive.  These are both the next generation for movie formats.  While they are still fighting over which will replace DVD you might want to take that into consideration when choosing your next console if you will use it for movies.If you are looking to get your next gaming system I would highly suggest the Playstation 3 over the Xbox 360.<script type="text/javascript"><!-- auctionads_ad_client = "e54e0fb03c5fa1863b36"; auctionads_ad_campaign = "5e3074448ce42140454dfe6203c45316"; auctionads_ad_width = "468"; auctionads_ad_height = "60"; auctionads_ad_kw =  "Playstation 3 console;XBOX 360 Console"; auctionads_color_border =  "e3edf7"; auctionads_color_bg =  "FFFFFF"; auctionads_color_heading =  "34587e"; auctionads_color_text =  "000000"; auctionads_color_link =  "34587e"; auctionads_options =  "n"; --></script><script type="text/javascript" src="http://ads.auctionads.com/pagead/show_ads.js"> </script>
