--- 
layout: post
is_review: false
image: katana-oil-pan-featured.png
title: Repairing the Oil Pan on my 2006 Katana 600
tags: 
- title: Internet
  autoslug: internet
  slug: internet
- title: Local
  autoslug: local
  slug: local
- title: Raves
  autoslug: raves
  slug: raves
excerpt: If you have been reading the other posts I have made you will know that I stripped my oil pan due to a defective torque wrench.  The lesson learned is to test the torque wrench prior to using it, had I done that I would not have caused myself all of this grief.  I contacted Parkway Cycle and asked them how much a replacement oil pan costs.
---
If you have been reading the other posts I have made you will know that I stripped my oil pan due to a defective torque wrench.  The lesson learned is to test the torque wrench prior to using it, had I done that I would not have caused myself all of this grief.  I contacted Parkway Cycle and asked them how much a replacement oil pan costs.  They told me that it was $173 and while I found it cheaper online for $143 I am still opting not to replace it but have it fixed "for now" and replace it in the future.  One of my friends is going to weld a nut to the inside of the oil pan so that the bolt will have something to screw into.  Now on to the repair process.The first thing I had to do was remove all of the plastics which was pretty simple.  There are only a handful of bolts that needed to be removed and a couple push pins.  Once all the plastics were off I climbed onto the ground to see just what needed to be removed.  First I thought I could get away with removing solely the muffler and leaving the exhaust manifold connected.  I was wrong and it turned out the manifold was the most troublesome part of the entire process.  The bolts were locked tight and I had to spray them real well with PB Blaster to get them to release.  Once they were strayed down I removed the coupling on the exhaust pipe that held the muffler to the manifold pipes.  I removed the rear muffler by removing 3 bolts and then twisting, turning and pulling.  If finally came loose and then it was time to remove the manifold pipes.I had to let the PB Blaster sit for a while prior to trying to loosen the manifold bolts because I did not want to strip the aluminum that they were screwed into.  Once I removed those 8 bolts the manifold pretty much fell off and I placed it aside.  With this removed I was able to remove the oil pan without much trouble.  I had to remove quite a few bolts though and I also had to remove the tubes that connected from the radiator to the oil pan.Now that it is removed and I feel good about being able to get it apart I am going to take it to have it welded this weekend.  Come Monday I will have to put the bike back together and that is the part I am a little worried about.  Most of the bolts that I removed need to be tightened with a torque wrench and the one I have is defective because it does not click at all, not even on 0 lbs.Putting the bike back together will be pretty straight forward as it was not that confusing coming apart and the bolts will pretty much only fit in the respective holes.  The only difficult part will be not over tightening the bolts and making sure there are no leaks.  Now this little mishap has caused me about 2 hours of my time taking the bike apart, about $30-40 in gaskets that will require changing (and may as well since it's apart) but it has saved me the cost the bike shop estimated for the labor charges.  I cannot believe that everything for a motorcycle is more expensive than for a car.  I know they are seen as "toys" but a lot of people actually commute on them every day rather than driving a gas guzzling car.  I see no reason why repair costs should be upwards of $90 per hour when most auto shops are $60-65 per hour.All of this has been a learning experience and I have actually enjoyed it.  When I was a teenager I used to like to work on cars.  I am glad that I can learn about the bike and do any routine maintenance required thus far.
